in fact what you tell me is there's a
different thought machine that's kind of
like saying like oh this is awesome like
you did a great job even though like
it's kind of a small impact
it feels fulfilling and right to you and
there are other times where on some
objective criteria in theory you're
having a bigger impact but it feels like
you're kind of a fraud yeah right so for
you to feel like you're a fraud must
mean that you believe something about
yourself
say say goodbye to chat I've never
closed chat for a stream before that's
weird
yeah um what's weird about it it feels
like I'm not live well perfect yeah but
let's just let's just trick your brain
into thinking about thousands of people
on the internet or not watching this for
sure good start so it's okay if I call
you Maya yeah I was just saying that
this is actually really fun for me
because I actually know what to call
someone yeah I just changed my name on
switch to Maya
prior to that it was my ego which is my
name okay yeah he go what is he what is
it's Japanese
my-my dad's Okinawan okay cool and so
what are we talking about today Maya um
it was difficult for me to come up with
I come up with that what but I guess
general anxiety my chat said that I
should talk about overthinking because I
do that a lot and then I have trouble in
I guess like internalizing my success
because a lot of I share a lot of my
viewership with my boyfriend who you
talk to miss Kay there Matt oh yeah says
the sky doing he's good he's good and
well actually he's playing a game right
now that makes him not so good but I
think miss Gibbs is fantastic man I like
him so much I think so too
um yeah so a lot of my growth on Twitch
happened after I after I met and started
dating him so sometimes I have trouble
like owning my success and not thinking
that it's just solely attributed to his
yeah hmm interesting
yeah it's a it's kind of a long story I
haven't been on twitch all that long
it's been just over a year okay but so
can you tell us the story yeah sure I'll
try to make it digestible um I started
when a nice in like February or
something like that and I was maxing out
it like a couple hundred viewers and
then one day I brought my Hawk out on
stream and a clip of that got put on LSF
so clips of me started getting put on
LSF why she feels um
blowing up whatever and then Matt found
me off of those clips and called me on
stream we started talking that way and
then several months later
Miska sorry ah um and then several
several months later we started dating
but my channel blew up after talking to
Matt and Hydra LSF okay and and so you
feel like your success on twitch is it
is attributed to miss get there Matt
partially yeah yeah like big partially
how do you feel about that um I don't
know I mean sometimes it doesn't bother
me it doesn't matter because I still
like what I'm doing with the platform
and I'm proud of it but it also makes my
achievements when I think about it feel
less satisfying I guess like what's
fulfilling hi guys so you're kind of
thinking like if you had done it on your
own it would mean more right and and
help me understand what what you mean by
achievements um I do a conservation
podcast on my channel every week and
I've done solidarity yeah happy Earth
Day chat I'm sorry I didn't say that um
yeah Earth Day but I do
conservation podcast every week and we
raise money I talked to a
conservationist psychologists biologists
special whatever about conservation
research and about usually a particular
species and we raise money for an
organization of their choosing through
the podcast alone or I think it's 26
episodes we've raised nearly 30 K around
and then through my streaming career
it's been well over 50 K I did a lot of
charity wow so yeah that's very cool
yeah and and how do you feel about doing
that it's the most important thing that
I've done in my life is is the podcast
and being like a powerful force in
conservation education and being able to
teach more people because before I
started streaming I had been working at
a zoo for several years doing
conservation education so like bringing
animal ambassadors out and teaching kids
and bringing them to birthday parties
and stuff like that and that's been my
thing in my dream forever so twitch kind
of just gave me a platform to do that on
a larger scale yeah my kids love that
stuff yeah like a fair and there's like
a dude there with animals mm-hmm yes and
and the interesting thing is that my
older one they like different animals so
my older one is terrified of all of the
animals that my younger one really likes
yeah you would think so but it doesn't
the younger one is oblivious that you
know the older one is scared of large
animals and snakes and crocodiles and
alligators and the younger one wants to
prevent all of them and we have to
explain to her sometimes I'll tell her
stories about you know friendly
alligators and then we actually had an
alligator in our backyard oh yeah shoot
so we have to explain to her that you
can't actually like to go up to the
water and pet the alligator it is it's a
fine line with having people fall in
love with animals and necessarily their
friends have you seen Tiger King I have
any thoughts about that can I ask you
about that or
yeah I absolutely despise the entire
series the only reason that I watched it
is because I felt the responses or the
obligation to be able to comment on it
but it's the good thing about the series
is that it exposes a lot of the really
really terrible stuff that happens in
the exotic animal industry for in the
for-profit exotic animal industry and
the exploitation that that comes with
cub petting and animal interactions and
especially with big cats so I think that
the best thing that came out of that
series is everyone who watched it I
think would now be uncomfortable going
to a facility and doing like cub petting
you know and that's huge cuz that's
that's been going on forever and there
are a lot of animals that aren't going
to suffer anymore because of the series
but it was really frustrating to watch
first we rust rating to watch about it
the animal husbandry
in the series the I mean the dynamics
between the people from you know a
normal person perspective or pretty wild
just the the lack of care for the
animals in the amount of care for the
for the profit and for the power
there's frustrating yeah you see that a
lot in in exotics when you have
something that people aren't supposed to
have you know or that most people don't
have so interesting okay yeah so you
know I've just been listening for you're
overthinking the course of this Congress
say I haven't seen it yeah well that I
guess that's good okay you're fine and
overthinking for me at this point in my
life is pretty much only about streaming
stuff I think so help me understand what
you mean by overthinking or what you're
because we're taking advice from chat
nowadays what your what your chat feels
about you ever thinking I'm trying to
think of an example
a while ago I set a goal incentive for a
sponsored stream well this happened a
couple times um yeah no so I sent a goal
incentive to add an emote and I don't
know if you're familiar with like haha
emotes but like it's a so an email like
of my face
that is like cringing and you're
supposed to use it when something or
someone says something that's not funny
but that kind of emote lens to talk the
city in chat cuz it's like you're
telling someone that they're not funny
and I said that I would add that emote
as a goal incentive for a certain amount
of downloads I think this is right I
think that's why I did that on a
sponsored stream and what is a download
it was more like I know what download is
but I may be getting this confused I'm
sure it was an incentive for something I
think it was for raid shot of Legends
and like the sponsor is they want you to
get a certain amount of downloads for
this free game you got it um and so you
keep track of how many of your viewers
have downloaded it and I think that's
all okay better um it wasn't incentive
for sure and I got I freaked out after
doing it because I was like wait are
people like do people think that I'm
just like a sellout or that I'm that I
don't care about like enabling toxicity
or are people starting to think that
like I'm not a good person because of
that emote and I freaked out and then I
deleted the emote and then chat freaked
out and they got really mad cuz they're
like you scammed this so then I added it
back shrim
yeah that's an example of overthinking I
think yeah I think I was overthinking
when I like snow balled I guess from
so that is to me sorry when I snowballed
from like I added this emote to shoot
like people think that I'm a bad person
okay so emote enabling toxicity uh-huh
I'm a bad person
Oh No
so the first thing is let's let's kind
of understand what's happening in your
mind there oh okay so let's try to
understand what's happening in your mind
there first so you say over thinking
what I'm gonna toss back at you is that
there may be a particular so I want you
to envision your mind as having
different centers of what I let's call
them thought producers so you'll have
like some part of your mind let's talk
about the internalizing growth for a
second right so you have one part of
your mind that produces thoughts like
yeah you know like at the end of the day
sure miss gif gave you a bump but people
wouldn't watch your stream if they
didn't like your content right so like
sure you got exposure through miss gif
but I don't think that I mean just based
on my understanding of twitch you know
our channel got huge bumps from a lot of
different places and at the top of the
list is probably our stream with reckful
and and so I'm grateful for that and I
think that that's like a big part of our
growth and at the same time I still
there's a part of me that says that like
sure we got like a gigantic bump from
that I mean we went from probably like
150 to like 10,000 in in terms of like
before and you know during the reckful
stream and things like that and so
certainly there's there there bumps that
happen but one of the things that I've
come to understand about twitch is that
generally speaking you know sure you can
get a bump because of a particular
interaction but people usually watch the
streams that they enjoy right like I
don't think anyone watches stream I mean
maybe people do but I generally speaking
like I know when I watch a twitch stream
i watch a Twitter stream because I enjoy
watching a twitch stream I don't do it
you know like and I find certain
streamers in certain ways but once I
find a streamer if I like a streamer I
watch the stream so let's say that
there's a part of you that sort of
understand
that produces thoughts right like that
says that okay am i you've actually
accomplished a lot and and you're you
know a good person and you're doing a
lot for the world and you're expanding
your conservation work and so be it then
there's another part of your mind that
produces other kinds of thoughts right
and this is the kind of with a part of
your mind that says ohm like maybe
you're an impostor like you wouldn't be
what you are without him and this and
that like do you see how like those two
it's not like each of these
thoughts is independent you have like
two like thought producing machines
they're like bobble machines yeah I'm
kids so bubble machines are very common
and and so you know they just kind of
like these things in some days like one
thought machine is like more active than
another thought machine does that make
sense yeah like you wake up on one day
and you're like oh I'm a
impostor today and on another day it's
like oh like I you know I'm I'm like
trying to make the world a better place
and that's awesome so the first thing is
when you talk about overthinking I don't
know that it's it's so much that you're
thinking too much
it's I get the sense that on some days
you think from the wrong place right so
let's try to understand how that is
because then maybe we can get a control
over overthinking we don't I don't think
that thinking too much is a problem like
if you're thinking about you know
conservation work or how to make the
most of your presence on Twitch or
things like that
we definitely want you to think as many
thoughts as you can on that so the first
thing is I have an issue with the word
overthinking because I think it's a
little bit of a misdiagnosis of you know
not acknowledging it's not like your
thinking is too high or too low it's
like there are different kinds of
thinking and one source of your thinking
is kind of problematic so let's start by
understanding where that thought machine
comes from and what it looks like
so when you started when you had the
idea for the emote can you walk me
through like how you decided to do that
emote is kind of the prize for a
particular goal it had been created and
I rejected it immediately when it was
created because I didn't want it why
didn't you want
well one cuz it's a picture of my face
that I don't particularly like okay so
when you say a picture of your face that
you don't particularly like help me
understand that what I'm making like a
weird expression and kind of weird to
have face emotes in chat what what when
you see a picture of your face with a
weird expression how does that make you
feel embarrass I guess okay what are you
embarrassed by that people are gonna see
it and think that I look weird okay so
people think that I look weird what do
you mean by weird I'm not sure okay
have you felt like you look weird in the
past not particularly okay do you
remember being concerned about your
appearance when you were growing up for
sure yeah I don't think more so than an
average
young girl I'm saying yeah I'm like
middle school I was super awkward short
but weirdly lanky I had a unibrow
stringy hair all that um I started
worrying more about my appearance at the
beginning of high school when I started
learning how to use makeup I guess is
where I started and other girls started
like to me getting prettier and I felt
like I was behind the curve
so yeah when what do you remember what
kind of thoughts you had um I thought
that makeup made them look really
different in a good way and I thought
that makeup either didn't make me look
different enough or I wasn't good enough
at doing it or it made me look different
a bad way
so I think why can't I do makeup to make
me look better like they can umm why did
you need to look better to catch up I
think behind the curve is
devastating yeah so just to kind of tie
things together behind the curve is a
thought machine okay what do you think
about that sounds toxic does that make
sense at all like would because it's
kind of a vague statement I'm making I'm
like you know does know it does help me
understand what you help me understand
what you understand when I say behind
the curve is a thought machine that if
that that thinking can lend itself to a
lot like a variety of situations
absolutely for me like academically
essentially sure right so so let's just
think about this for a second so do you
feel like you're behind the curve on
Twitch a little bit not in terms of like
my viewership or my rate of growth but
there's a lot that I don't understand
about twitch just cuz I haven't been
around as long as other people a lot of
twitch history that I don't know a lot
of intricacies of streaming that I don't
understand just because I haven't had
enough experience yeah
so that doesn't sound to me like that's
a behind the curve thought that sounds
to me like someone who recognizes that
that they've been doing this for about a
year and they have a lot to learn
that doesn't mean you're behind the
curve that just means you're one year
into the car does that make sense
right yep yeah do you see the difference
there yeah like do you feel bad when you
say I have a lot to learn about twitch
no okay so now let's talk about
internalizing growth for a second do you
feel like mischief is sort of the make
that makes you look better than you
truly are is that sometimes how you feel
about it I'm having a hard time like
putting those things together okay so
maybe they're not connected let me put
it another way I'm noticing something
that you have a sense of your worth that
sometimes is low and that you have an
idea that you can do certain things to
artificially elevate your sense of worth
so let's say makeup is one example right
now we're not saying that you're
different for most people I mean most
people are like this okay that's how we
can talk about this because these are
patterns that exist with like basically
everyone I've ever talked to
and and so I'm kind of thinking if we
take this idea that like my is not good
enough and then unless she can like do
something external that makes her good
enough or makes her appear to be good
enough I think makeup falls into that
and I'm wondering whether miss gifs bump
on your stream also sort of qualifies
under that framework of oh you couldn't
make it yourself but he's basically the
thing that elevates you beyond where you
normally belong and so the success is
not yours yeah I don't know if it's so
closely tied to music if as it is like
the bump in viewership and you're like
general like numbers I have on twitch
now like the numbers make me look like
I'm a better streamer than I am look
like a better stream of beautiful that's
exactly what I'm talking about right
where do you get the idea of what your
true like that implies that there's like
a false streamer quality in a true
streamer quality right like oh my
numbers are better than what I deserve
so where do you get the idea of like
what your gold standard is how do you
determine what you deserve how do you
determine what's right because it's
inflated yeah so where do you get the
idea of like what's true north
maybe it's because I haven't been on
Twitch that long or because my my like
life purpose or my life goal for years
has been to be a force in conservation
and before when I was working at the zoo
I was completely and fully satisfied
doing a presentation for like 30 people
a class of 30 people or like a crowd of
max a hundred people you know I was like
that's huge and I would go home and feel
really good about it and think like I
just inspired this many people today and
that's a big deal for me um I think it's
unfathomable to imagine a thousand two
thousand three thousand people watching
me and me having the same effect on that
many people so I maybe feel like there's
something not wrong but like there's no
way that I can influence this many
people just because I'm like good at
what I'm doing I like because I'm a good
stream like there must be something that
they're missing or that like I'm like
they're like being tricked into thinking
I'm some expert that I'm not or that I
like deserve this like platform and I
don't I don't know that makes sense yes
sort of okay so I'd like to ask you a
few questions about that if that's okay
sure so the first thing is I'm hearing a
common theme of like you deserve
something and you get more than you
deserve
yeah right so let me so I think the the
main question is like where do you get
the idea of what you deserve right so I
think that's a thought machine this idea
that like I don't deserve this or I'm
not good enough or I wouldn't be
somewhere because like you don't have
intrinsic value and who you are and and
that's not like a it's not an all the
time thing and I think it's beautiful
that you gave the are the
the example of when you give a
conservation lecture for 30 people
because at that time the thought machine
of I don't deserve this or I'm not a
good person or I'm not good enough is
not producing thoughts in fact what you
tell me is there's a different thought
machine that's kind of like saying like
oh this is awesome like you did a great
job even though like it's kind of a
small impact
it feels fulfilling and right to you and
there are other times where on some
objective criteria in theory you're
having a bigger impact but it feels like
you're kind of a fraud Yeah right so for
you to feel like you're a fraud must
mean that you believe something about
yourself so like if I pretend to be a
doctor if I think I'm not a real doctor
if I feel like I'm a fraud doctor even
if I'm performing the duties of a doctor
I have to have a belief that I'm not a
real doctor that comes from somewhere
right so what I'm really curious about
and I think if we really want to try to
help you Maya it's to help you
understand like where you get the idea
that you're a fraud we have to find out
where that thought machine came from do
you have any idea I think that that's
actually something that I've had for a
long time or like the idea of like I'm
the fraud thing even before before
streaming yeah I I grew up in a super
super competitive School District now we
got in there and ventured academics
early earlier and behind the curve yeah
we had like we I mean we easily have one
of the highest suicide rates in the
country like not just at my high school
but a bunch of high schools in the area
and I've always said I still say now
even though I shouldn't that and I've
said it on streem before to that I come
across as more intelligent than I am
because I've been taught in school to
like be articulate or like I have been
taught to like come across as being
intelligent but I'm not so my I want you
to I'm gonna repeat back your statement
okay I come across as more intelligent
than I am
help me understand what you see in that
statement what do you mean what I see
like what like help quick so in I guess
it's kind of read my mind question so in
that statement I see once again the
presumption that you are one thing and
that you're a fraud do you see that like
in that statement we see the same thing
I'm not I'm smarter than I appear to be
I'm not as good-looking as I appear with
makeup I'm not as successful of a
streamer as I would be unless I got the
bumps from LSF or this or that
like it's sort of this idea of act
intrinsic value and the way that the
world perceives you and the world
perceives you like you're over here but
you feel like you're over here yeah and
absolutely that started way before you
started streaming on twitch twitch is
just one manifestation that activates
that thought machine do you see like
this is like a core part of you that
frequently whether it's academics
whether it's social stuff you feel
behind the curve you feel like you're
not that other people think you're
something that you're not
yes and can I ask you some questions I
mean I know I mean I learned this lesson
the hard way where sometimes I would ask
people personal questions about whether
they grew up or where they are and you
know you don't do that on Twitch and
that's just because you know I usually
see people in the privacy of my office
where no one is watching so they can
give me details about you know what
street they grew up on but do you mind
if I ask a couple of questions because
you mentioned that we have the highest
suicide rate I thought that was a weird
thing and I'm really curious about that
can I ask I mean my my first move on
Twitch was leaking my full name so so
can you tell me where you grew up
yeah Silicon Valley okay California and
I just laughing so and tell me a little
bit about what growing up was like for
you that explains so much
oh yeah I work with a fair number of
people who are in Silicon Valley and
also have children of parents who are in
Silicon Valley so growing up I grew up
on a small farm so I've always been
around animals I was the only one out of
four I have three other siblings that
was really into animals my sister and I
are super close in age or 18 months
apart she's older I'm 21 um she's far
more academically inclined than I am she
went to an Ivy she played soccer all
through high school I also played soccer
in high school who's older she is okay
she's older by 18 months and I played a
bunch of sports
I rode horses I've been riding horses
all my life and I'm a senior at Cal Poly
San Luis Obispo but not in school right
now because of the virus okay what are
you studying agriculture agricultural
communications that's my major hmm that
sounds cool can you tell me a little bit
about that the idea of the major is to
crank out people that can work in the AG
industry that are capable of
communicating messages to consumers
better so marketers journalists
environmental lawyers stuff like that
interesting so you mentioned that she
went to an Ivy mm-hmm how do you how do
you feel about that they're mixed
feelings for sure I mean absolutely
proud she got recruited for d1 soccer as
well my sisters always been like a like
better than you in a lot of ways shay
yeah um but I was super proud that she
went to an Ivy shouldn't end up being
all that happy there
but it was cool too
to know that she got like when she got
in it was like a really big deal and
that she was going for engineering she's
always want to do engineering so it was
exciting
it also was a little bit nerve-wracking
because her going to an Ivy kind of set
the precedent that I would also I felt
that way to go to Cornell but where are
your other two siblings in terms of your
eight y'all's agency she's 23 22 23
you're 21 where where are they one of my
brothers they're half-brothers so
they're much older over there 33 and 29
and so you said it set the bar for you
and and how did you feel when that bar
was set do you remember
well I think I knew that it wasn't my
like whole life it was kind of like cuz
she's I mean she's 18 months older so
everything that she did like I was next
for you know like going to high school
than making this soccer team she was
like always setting a bar this is so
depressing
she was always setting a bar that I knew
like I couldn't hit true so um would you
say that that's when he started to feel
behind the curve yeah okay so so how did
it feel when she got into an IV cuz you
said mixed feelings like obviously
you're proud you love your sister you
respect her a lot you want her to be
happy
but and
kind of like a oh feeling what's
way in that I'm gonna ask you to dig a
little bit and if we can't get anywhere
I'll offer you some hypotheses about
what oh means yeah that I I've
never really been interested in
attending an IV I wanted to go somewhere
where I knew there was like a lot of
outdoorsy stuff and where people were
super relaxed and I might buy me my
university it's been perfect for that
but I didn't want to do like a hardcore
academics thing say I would just like
heaven I've never been into it so it was
kind of like a oh
um is this gonna make me feel worse
about not doing something as challenging
as she's choosing to do I think and did
it make you feel worse then if she
didn't know I mean so when so so you
kind of said is this gonna make me feel
okay so let me take a step back for a
second so this is what I'm envisioning
you have an idea of who you are hmm
you actually do have an idea who you are
right so we see leo Maya which is Maya
who knows she wants to like not be an
engineer and go to a school where she
can be outdoors and be involved in the
AG industry or animals or things like
that
conservationist Maya Maya who works
summers and educates kids about animals
and teaches them about conservation the
Maya who raises money for charity on
Twitch of all places this is real Maya
that Maya is one thought machine right
it makes you happy with what you
accomplish even if you're what you
accomplish this quote-unquote small and
then there's also behind the curve Maya
and what I'm hearing in oh is like
a conflict between real Maya and behind
the curve Maya so then you start to
think like oh like maybe I'm making a
mistake like maybe I should do what she
does is this good enough
my capable you said that you're not
interested in doing what she does but I
would hypothesize that you felt on some
level that you're not capable and if you
chose absolutely - yeah right I don't
think I am and and so how do you feel
about not being capable how does that
feel
I mean I recognized that I'm capable of
a lot of things that my sister's not in
being a communicator in public speaking
and you know like being internet famous
sure but like the feeling in high school
like all my friends I didn't have a
single friend that didn't attend college
and the vast majority of them went to
that are better or like more difficult
to get in colleges and I did everyone
had a higher SAT AC T Square than I did
and it always felt like I was like chat
I mean we've already talked about this
that I was just like trying to like fake
that I was as smart as they were so in
thinking that I'm not capable of going
to an IV of being an engineer or
whatever it's just kind of like it feels
like me like exposing myself like saying
like yeah like you're you're at least
being honest with yourself that you're
not well yeah I mean so when you say
exposing so being honest with yourself
sounds like a good thing exposing
yourself
sounds like a not good thing yeah right
and and so what I'm hearing is that like
the gig is up but you've been revealed
to be a fraud because you ended up at
some school that's not an IV and now the
like you know the cats out of the bag
my is actually kind of dumb is that how
you feel yeah I think that okay what is
it like to hear me say that
does it hurt
I mean my first reaction was not really
but maybe a little bit I don't know okay
so let's think about that like that's
weird right like so I think if we think
about you know your emote this would be
no this would have been a prime time to
spam the emote in this channel because I
just said something to you that seems
like it should be really hurtful right
okay like I mean literally the sentence
that I the phrase that I used or close
to it was like the cats out of the bag
oh my is dumb and isn't that what you're
afraid of people saying I feel like
people already know but that doesn't
make sense
that doesn't matter you're damn right it
does it let's do it right so what what's
weird because like even though you feel
like people already know you don't want
them to say right you want to try to
hide what you're afraid they already
know yeah so why is what happens why
doesn't it hurt when I bring it out into
the open I can't logically think of a
reason for that yeah okay great answer
no that's an accident why because it's
confusing let me think about how
to explain this so when people find out
that you're a fraud mm-hmm what do you
envision how do they react
[Music]
I don't know how to articulate it yeah
because I don't think it's actually like
a vision right so look what are the
feelings like what like help me
understand that like what are you afraid
of them how do they make you feel or how
do you feel once they know let's start
there I've that I have some sort of like
malicious intent to like trick people or
that I've been lying I thought I'm like
not genuine mmhmm right yeah so I think
what you're afraid of in terms of a
negative reaction is that right like
it's not just them finding out it's the
judgment that they place upon you after
they find out yes it's the way that they
perceive you so now let me ask you a
question is it the fraud that hurts or
the judgment that hurts
absolutely.thank right so just think
about that for a second right because
like if someone you know if and so I
think the reason that I mean maybe this
does hurt you and you're not telling me
or tricking me but you know I think the
reason that you can hear those words for
me is because I from me is because I
actually don't judge you negatively at
all so I'm saying the words without the
judgement we're talking about you being
a fraud I see that you think you're a
fraud and I don't believe you're a fraud
at all so I think because you're an
empathic person when you look at me I
don't I don't judge you for that in fact
I think that yeah this is gonna sound
weird how can I say this it's very clear
to me that you're not a fraud the only
thing that is like wrong about you is
that you think you're a fraud like you
know who you are and I think you're
amazing and the only issue is that like
sometimes you think you should be
something that you're not and not all
the time but there are two thought
machines one thought machine is like the
genuine Myo who does like real stuff I
think that person is awesome I think the
only problem that I have is that some
times there's a part of your mind that
tells you you should be someone else and
that's the part of you that makes you
feel dumb I don't think you're dumb
first of all I don't know how many like
actual score reports you saw for SAT
scores or a CT scores but there's a
decent chance that not everyone did as
well as they they said they did right
there's also a decent chance that I
doubt that you actually had the lowest
SAT score because statistically that's a
very very unlikely I think that's
probably a cognitive bias on your part
in the same way that you had a cognitive
bias that oh like makeup makes other
people look better but it makes me look
out right yeah right so some something
about this how are you feeling right now
by the way thank okay something about
this I think comes back to this core
idea of like you're someone who's behind
the curve you're not as good as everyone
else and if it's a does that make sense
about actually before I go there does
that make sense why those words may not
hurt you because I don't I say those
words but I don't have any judgment in
fact I have a positive judgment with it
which is probably why it's confusing for
you and you're picking up my positive
judgment and you're hearing my negative
words and that doesn't fit right
okay so let me ask you this like can you
tell me a little bit more about like
growing up sure what was it like growing
up in your house pretty pretty good um
I've always made my sister I've always
been super close we did everything
together a little my brother's because
they're older I mean I grew up with them
but they left for college when I was
like on the younger side so yeah it's a
little different my parents both Silicon
Valley work full-time so we were we were
pretty much raised by babysitter's
mostly one babysitter and then she she
just like didn't pick us up one day so
then random teenage babysitters
throughout elementary school some in
middle school and
[Music]
what's it like being raised by
babysitters fine I don't I don't feel
like I ever really had a problem with
that um I didn't realize until like high
school that it was weird that they like
we only called one of them mom
but I didn't realize until high school
that that was like strange like okay I'm
gonna repeat back what I heard we only
called one of the mom yes yes I yeah
yeah but I didn't realize growing up
that that was abnormal sure what kind of
work did your parents do uh tech okay
and do you remember what your so it
sounds like you were raised by
babysitters do you understand what
happened when one of them didn't pick
you up like you said yeah yeah so she
was she was there I mean she was there
the day my sister was born so she's
absolutely there the day I was born
and then she was with us until I was in
third grade or something okay second or
third grade every day
and then she just she just didn't pick
us up from school one day and I guess
she had some sort of nervous breakdown
um but I've I mean I've well I did talk
to her about it once because I'm at some
point in high school she reached out to
my sister and like wanted to meet up
with us which was weird and then she
told us that she had a nervous breakdown
but I'm not really sure what the what
the reason was
hmm what if she lost her husband at some
point in there so that was probably okay
big part of it hmm
okay I'm just gonna think for a second
is that okay yeah of course
how's this going so far by the way good
okay you feel like you're learning any
what are you learning
I I don't usually think about the I
don't usually go that far back when I
think about anxiety or whatever so yeah
it's interesting so I've been in therapy
for I've been seeing a therapist for
just over two years and I've I do
believe Dr for like almost a whole year
and I did neurofeedback for a few months
so we've talked about it in there yes
I'm in a lot I am as why are you doing
EMDR um I had I had like deep-rooted
insecurities in my former relationship
that I wanted to figure out so we did
the EMDR and focus a lot actually on
that babysitter and about like
abandonment issues and stuff like that
and then neurofeedback was for a
separate trauma that I was hoping to I
was hoping for memory recovery because I
lost most of it but that's yeah that's
what I haven't talked about it on streem
side okay don't think you can steer
clear of it yeah okay
so I guess some things are starting to
fit together a little bit more for me so
help me understand a little bit about
what your relationship with your parents
was like my parents are great
my dad doesn't talk a lot and he's not
very affectionate but he's first
generation or he moved here when he was
17 and he's always just been really
really quiet and then my mom is super
loving and she loves animals and yeah
well we got along with and we butt heads
in high school a lot but that's cuz I
was a teenage girl that's a lot like her
normal yeah and what when you say that
your dad wasn't very affectionate do you
remember feeling like you wanted him to
be more affectionate no not he was
wouldn't be and my sister were little
and then when we got older was it but I
never thought of it as being anything
but normal
it sounds like you feel pretty stronger
like your parents love you
yeah it sounds like they're great yeah
can you in once again anything that you
don't want to talk about just let me
know what we're steering clear up can
you tell me what you mean by abandonment
issues yeah I was so the reason that I
started going to therapy was because I
was really insecure in my last
relationship like I always thought that
he was gonna leave or whatever so I went
in to figure out why that was happening
and we had a hard time figuring out and
talk therapy than my psychologist
recommended EMDR because she thought
that it was something deeper I went to
EMDR we did a bunch of sessions and I
don't remember what the session was but
we had some breakthrough session where I
like started talking about that
babysitter and how like
like any when a parent figure or
something leaves how like the kid feels
like it's their fault you know where the
kid feels like they're not good enough
or whatever what's your understanding of
that how does that work do you know like
a kid not understanding and thinking
that it's their fault that that person
left mm-hmm which I know logically isn't
the case but what do you mean logically
isn't the case like I don't I don't
think that she left because she didn't
like me oh right because because my
fault but yeah my kid brain you know
like my my therapist would say still
thinks that that's that's a thing so
that tendency of thinking that someone's
gonna leave because of me or someone's
just gonna ditch me after I think that
my relationship with them is super
secure was leaking into my my current
relationship at the time and does that
does that did that make sense to you did
you find that to be the case like was
that hypothesis kind of very helpful and
applicable yeah and and after that
session it got a little bit better but
it remains pretty pretty debilitating
throughout that relationship yeah once
again if you don't feel comfortable
asking answering this just let me know
but I was gonna I was just curious is
that still pretty active for you and
your relationship with Miskin it's not
which is really bizarre and I talked to
my therapist about that a decent amount
now I I took like I had a little over I
had about a year of being single and
doing that I at that point I had stopped
the EMDR and the neurofeedback but it
used to be like debilitating like fear
and I would be sad and what
for about him talking to other girls and
and that kind of thing and I'm not sure
if that like there's I mean there's
jealousy that comes up you know but I
don't think that it's abnormal sure for
between me and Matt um and I'm not sure
if that's because of the work that I've
done or because something's changed for
me or if it's because of differences in
Matt compared to my ex-boyfriend but
it's pretty weird which is by me to try
to explain what my understanding of that
is sure yep so let's start with with
your kid brain okay so early on when
children are young they lack something
called theory of mind in theory of mind
is the capacity to like put yourself in
other people's minds and like understand
that they have thoughts and feelings and
intentions okay so the simplest thing
the simplest reason why abandonment of a
parent parental figure leads to a sense
of you are like unlovable or there's
something wrong with you is because a
child literally does not understand that
there are other agents in the world who
can do things right they're the only
thing that exists because they don't
understand that there are other like
thinking breathing beings out there and
so anything that happens to them is
their fault because they're the only
their all-powerful in the universe in
their mind because they just don't
understand that other people exist and
this changes drastically especially in
your teenagers so you start to develop
theory of mind you know around like
maybe I mean you develop it relatively
early but it becomes really really big
when you become when you go through
puberty and in puberty the reason that
like high school is so hard in middle
school is so hard is because this is
literally when your brain develops the
capacity to understand that other people
have like lasting opinions of you and
that like if I do something this person
is gonna think this about me that
capacity like if you talk to a
seven-year-old they don't understand
that right right they don't understand
that like if you go to someone's house
and you break their thing that that
person is not gonna like you like all
they understand is that they're not
supposed to do it and they don't
understand why they're like it's dumb
like I should be
I want right and when you become a
teenager you start to realize oh like
theory of mind is actually thing and
people think things about me and that's
really terrifying because now you have
to like balance all of these hundreds of
people that you know and what they think
about you so as for why your current
relationship and I'm not surprised at
all that it's better and that's because
I think you figured out the thought
machine so you discovered through EMDR
you figured out oh there's a thought
machine that that gives me that sources
my thoughts of insecurity and once you
discover the source of the thought
machine you can start the process of
turning it off and so I would like
literally if I were to record your
thoughts from your last relationship in
this relationship I think one of them
just had way more thoughts coming from
that thought machine and they just don't
come from this thought machine because
you just kind of turned it off and I
know it sounds kind of simple but like
honestly it kind of is and so the
interesting thing here is that I think
that you have another thought machine
which is behind the curve and somewhere
along the way and I'm not sure if it's
your parents like everyone wants to say
it's your parents like all of us
therapists and psychiatrists and stuff
like we're like all our experience I
mean you know maybe there was something
around like your dad not being quite
affectionate enough or maybe your
parents compared you did your parents
compare you a lot with your sister yeah
but not like like they wouldn't they
wouldn't say or maybe they didn't then
maybe I just think that they did but no
it's interesting right like how you're
analyzing what you said so let's not
judge what you said so what how did can
feel growing up my dad more so than my
mom but yeah I think that they that they
compared us a lot and how did you notice
that um I guess I'm just like expecting
me to do well like my sister in
elementary school they were like normal
classes in advanced math classes I think
that because my sister was always in the
advanced ones they expected me to be in
those classes as well
my sister making varsity
soccer freshman year just like it
expected me to do the same yeah I guess
that like sisters that precedent
expected me to reach that precedent and
and what was it like to not reach that
precedent I mean the interesting thing
is I I'm almost interpreting what you
said is that you weren't in advanced
math classes and you didn't end up in
varsity soccer is that true yeah how
does it um to hear me say that
explicitly what I mean it's too much but
um I don't know maybe at first maybe it
bothered me actually yes okay it did
bother me at first the first like big
example that I have is this advanced
math stuff and I would like on my own
study I actually recently I did this
YouTube video where I went through like
old school work and old pictures and
stuff and I found a letter that I wrote
to a teacher it's not in the video I
found a letter that I wrote to a teacher
about like really wanting to be an
advanced math which is like not a thing
that I mean it's not like you submit a
letter to be in advance
I like wrote a letter to my teacher for
the following year saying like can I
please be in this class which and this
was in like third or fourth grade or
something yeah and I was never in it so
at first I think it was it made me feel
bad and then later on in high school
like when I didn't get in the varsity
soccer at that point it was just like a
norm so I think it probably became
easier to to deal with oh okay hold on a
sec so no my friend i I think I think by
the time you hit high school it became
chronic right so now what we're dealing
with is something that's chronic does
that make sense yeah like your sense of
being behind the curve like now in a
sense when you say be it's become easier
to deal with
not really you've become better at
dealing with something that
that point became fact yeah so that's
bad okay so like do you understand what
I mean by that I don't really understand
why it's a bad thing yeah I understand
that you don't understand that what I'm
saying is that like you think that this
is just the way that you are yes right
so like I think that that's bad because
I don't think you're that way okay so I
think you so I think so let's just let's
think through this okay
and is it okay that we're being a little
bit more analytical instead of emotional
okay were you hoping to come in here and
have like a cathartic like oh so so I'm
gonna try it because I think you're
you've done a lot of that kind of stuff
I don't know why I believed that but now
it sort of makes sense so so I want you
to just think so first let's think about
the third grader who writes a letter to
their math teacher to be an advanced
math yeah let's talk about her like what
do you think a third grader how do you
think that third grader feels well it
definitely wasn't because I liked math
and I wanted to challenge myself third
graders don't want to challenge
themselves in any way sure yeah I've
always hated it when I was reading the
letter it felt like a really sad like
desperate attempt to find another way to
get in because I knew that I wouldn't
get him because of my test score yep so
it is sad and desperate what does that
person feel about themselves
I probably just that they're not smart
enough yeah they're not good enough
right yeah and that they have to put on
makeup to fool people they have to do
something that is outside the norm of
what normally like normal people normal
kids get in the math class by being
smart and normal people are pretty and
they can put on makeup and I'm sorry if
I'm bludgeoning you with this I think
it's related but like you know normal
people can put on makeup and look better
but like I'm fundamentally different and
so I have to go the extra mile to catch
up and be normal right you start behind
people is that how you feel about
yourself yep
so can you see how like that's what the
third grader feels about themselves
right so like you kind of said this runs
deep I completely agree and then let's
think about so let's just pause and
think about that for a second what do
you think about that third graders
beliefs do you think that those are
accurate I mean I wish that I could say
no but yeah cuz I I know that according
to that I mean if we're talking about
the math class like I know that even if
I I don't know I mean I could but even
if I were to like study harder or like
really make an effort to to test to get
in that class that I I don't think I
would have so yeah I mean I think I was
accurate and thinking that I needed to
do more to try to get in I I'm glad
you're saying that because this is so
this is where we get into a really
really tricky trap which is that we want
to be positive right what we should say
is that yeah third grader you can do it
yeah yeah like you're not actually dumb
you don't actually have to work as hard
but like the truth is that like maybe I
mean I don't think you're dumb I mean
that was kind of an inflammatory
statement but I I don't I think it's
good that you can recognize that you're
not your sister the big difference is
that third year old three third grader
you placed a value judgment on not being
yours
yeah you assumed that your sister was
like objectively better than what you
are you assumed that being an advanced
class advanced math is objectively
better than not being an advanced math
yes what I would like to help you do
Maya is to let go of that second part
the judgment because I think you're
accurate right like if you're not good
at math and you're not gonna go like if
you're not gonna study engineering in an
Ivy League university like you shouldn't
study Utley that all right you know
be the person that you want to be I
think the tricky thing is that somewhere
along the way you started judging
yourself for being who you are and you
tried to be someone else and then what
happened is when high school came along
you sort of got so good at that that it
stopped being painful hmm you just sort
of accepted it you're smiling yeah no
it's just true what's true about it what
are you thinking it's just how so that
that like that I had like tried to be
something else and then by the time I
got the high school it was it was I just
gotten used to doing that yeah right so
at that point like the problem is that
at that point it becomes fact and it
becomes baked in its like baked like you
can't take it out anymore like once you
bake a cake you know everything's in
there right and and now I think the
problem is that we see that part of you
right like we see the 3rd grader who's
not good enough for advanced math who in
your teenage years needed makeup to look
normal and and now we still see it with
your twitch stream we're like oh I
couldn't have done this on my own
because I'm not good enough like miss
kif is like I'm I'm less good and I need
these I need letters to math teachers in
order to be like the others and it's
just become true for you what do you
think about that
I think that it's accurate yeah yeah and
I think that it makes sense I'm not sure
what that means for for me or like my
identity aired what I should do about it
that I'm sure it's so let's answer that
question because that's an important
right so the first is oddly enough I
don't want you to make that untrue
it's not my place to tell you it isn't
true what I'd like for you to be able to
do and what I'd like to help you do is
free yourself of the judgment that comes
with that all right
do you play games okay I mean like I've
played some all of my allergies go No
yeah I won't worry I won't understand a
few if you make it reference so so you
work with animals right I do you have a
hawk she's an American Kestrel
okay so Kestrel is a pretty small bird
right it's not good at North America
yeah yeah so like let's think about that
for a second okay so like a Castrol is
like a Kestrel isn't as big and like
does that mean that it's worse but
generally speaking no right so so like I
want you to think about that right so
like the problem is not that factually
you aren't as smart as other people the
problem is that you don't think about it
depends on what you want to do do you
see that like it's that part of the
thought process that's missing you just
look at size you don't look at like
adaptability and it's sometimes you do
but does that make sense yeah and I
think that that's been ingrained in me
and all of my peers since we were in
preschool for that but like what you
should do is do really well in school be
really good at math be an engineer
or comp sigh and goes to school but no
one ever no one ever said like you
should like you should learn how to
train animals and you should try to go
into the AG industry and you should like
if you like doing outdoor stuff like you
should get really into it you know and
and like nurture that passion nothing to
be talks about that yeah what do you
think about that if I liked math a lot
and wanted to be an engineer and went to
a school for that I probably wouldn't
feel a lot of the things that I feel
yeah so I I think actually my I think
you are just truly remarkable and the
reason is because like you said all of
those kids were do you know why your kit
your high school has a high suicide rate
probably cuz not all of them like math
and engineering and what do they do when
they don't like math or engineering I
mean not all of them but yeah a lot of
them yeah why do they kill themselves
because they don't like math and
engineering like what do they end up
majoring in college well most the ones
that I mean kill themselves off you know
like those kids like you know the ones
that didn't kill themselves the ones
that are just depressed yeah so like I
mean I know a lot of people I know a lot
of people that that went to school like
my best friend went to school for
business and she was super super unhappy
and she changed her major it's an art
and design and now she's really happy
but she went through credit quite a
crisis in deciding to change her major
and I think there are probably a lot of
my peers from high school that have
pursued business or
or engineering and are unhappy but feel
like they're doing what's right and I
think that the kids that couldn't take
that or the kids that were depressed in
high school or the ones that did take
their lives probably just thought that
like they knew that they wouldn't be
happy doing what we were supposed to do
and you get where I'm going no I'm sorry
or not and they knew they wouldn't be
happy doing what they're supposed to do
so they I mean they just they took their
lives because they knew that they
wouldn't be happy because they want to
do other things so why do I think you're
remarkable what does I did in high
school you didn't what commit suicide
not only that I mean and now I'm curious
about whether you were suicidal but what
I think makes you remarkable is that you
chose to be what you are right that you
had like that you chose to like be the
person that you shouldn't be that's what
I think makes you amazing like so I
think you know you're in a world of I
forget you know what kind of like what a
red-tailed hawk is pretty big yeah so
like you know you're in a world of where
everyone's saying that a red-tailed hawk
is what you should be in you're a
Kestrel and I think the people that
killed themselves were kestrels that
pretended to be red-tailed Hawks and
then realized that they couldn't take
down the kind of prey that red-tailed
Hawks go for yeah yeah no that makes
sense what are you feeling right now
I feel bad I don't know I don't I don't
talk about or reflect on the case from
my high school like ever but it's it's
not something that I ever put thought I
did the most thought that I've ever put
into it was that like it was just like
too much pressure you know and I've like
a lot of the language and like high
school and stuff when we talked about it
was that like they like couldn't take it
you know or like they couldn't handle
the pressure so I think that you're very
similar to those kids in high school
what do you think about that yeah I mean
I wasn't I was never depressed or
suicidal in high school I was in college
like a year and a half I'm wondering
like Maya do you think that those kids
in high school felt the way that you
felt in the third grade when you wrote
that letter
yeah I bet um I bet a lot of them felt
like frauds or like they weren't
supposed to like they weren't like
everyone I would say like they were just
faking it while everyone else was
actually smart yeah I think that's why
it hurts right because like when you
think about it you recognize that like
you know what they felt like like you
don't know what you know but you feel I
mean to be honest I was a little bit
surprised to see your reaction there but
I think just that you got emotional kind
of it when we were sort of oh me too
yeah I've never I've never cried about
that yeah yeah and I mean so I was gonna
ask you why do you think you did but I I
think the reason that you did is because
you know what it's like to be them you
know what it's like to feel those
feelings you know what it's like to be
eight years old and like
start to think that you're not good
enough and between the ages of 8 and 15
every year that goes by to think more
and more that oh maybe I'm not good
enough maybe I'm not good enough and
maybe I'm not good enough and then what
happens in high school then it's not a
maybe yep right then it's like I'm not
good enough and I'm not gonna make it
and then they hold on to hope and they
hold on to hope that maybe they're wrong
maybe they're wrong maybe they're wrong
but their mind tells them no you're not
wrong you're not wrong you're not gonna
get into an ivy
you're not as good at math you're not
you're not a redtail talk right and they
can't what I think really I'm very
impressed by and and what I think really
makes you an amazing person has nothing
to do with your skills at math or even
you're not necessarily your conservation
work it's that you let yourself be a
Kestrel and I think that's what saved
you and I think that like the world has
made a better place by people
acknowledging that they're not by being
who they are right like that's what
makes your conservation work impactful
because you actually like give a
about it like imagine an alternate
universe we're in Silicon Valley
everyone went into conservation work and
you were the one kid that liked
mathematics it doesn't matter it's just
like being who you are and what I love
it if you could do is just recognize
that you know when you feel so now I'll
try to tie things up for you okay and
then you can ask questions or we can
meditate or whatever we can talk further
but I'd like to I'd love it if I could
help you walk away from this
conversation with something kind of
concrete that hopefully you can sort of
like implement in some way in that
concrete thing is recognized that you
have this thought machine of Maya is not
good enough and that same thought
machine is what drove people to kill
themselves in high school in that same
thought machine is what drove you is a
3rd grader to write a letter to your
math teacher to like one
in advanced math class and just think
about the desperation and sadness right
like that's where suicide comes from it
comes from a combination of sadness and
desperation I can hear you know all
right I was saying that that I was
getting myself going just a discord
me out me um no it's not your it's
my internet so I was just thinking that
you know what I think about suicide I
think about if you want to understand
suicide its sadness and desperation it's
those two things right that's what leads
to suicide and that you understood like
a third grade you like understood what
that was like and now what I want you to
recognize is that third grade you lives
with you today that all throughout it
started and like there's a part of you
that just believes and then like you you
thankfully were able to find yourself
quote-unquote right you found Miss
gifting you found twitch and you found
us and we embraced you and we love you
for who you are and you absolutely
deserve the success that you have
because I don't think I mean you can't
fake it on Twitch you just can't like
twitch is actually really really good at
like picking up things they're they're
kind of visceral and primitive but
they're like very instinctual and so so
the next time can you hear that it
sounds like one of my children is it
hurt hurt herself okay let me try the
rock so I was just gonna say so I want
you to notice that when you start to
feel not good about yourself or you
notice those thoughts or you start to
think like now we're gonna go back to
the hemo right thinking that if you use
this emote you're a bad person and this
and this and this and recognize like try
to see like what of those thoughts is
coming from the thought machine of third
year the third grader Maya and even if
it's coming from those that you don't
have to like follow those like even
though you're not as smart as other
people it doesn't like you who the
this is my point is like there's no I
want you to let go of your judgment of
not being as smart as other people
mm-hmm right like if you're not as good
of a streamer as Miss gift for other
people like so be it like what's wrong
with that yeah right you're not a
red-tailed hawk you're a Kestrel fine so
like be the Kestrel and as best as you
can recognize that that part of you is
like there and that's gonna be like
bubbling up thoughts but you have this
other thought machine in which you're
not behind the curve that thought
machine doesn't care about whether
you're behind the curve or not it
doesn't care about whether you convince
30 people or a thousand people or 3,000
people you just care about convincing
people and you just care about pushing
forward in the more that you can listen
to that part of yourself I think the
less power
this internalizing your success and
insecurity and anxiety and overthinking
will have over you thoughts questions
I like the because I've had I've had a
red day on the Kestrel so I have and
that does make sense
but I don't think I have any questions
okay great any last I mean thoughts are
we or we can say goodbye you good one
not the drips have to say something I
just yeah I don't I don't think so I
mean this was a really cool conversation
thank you you're doing really really
cool stuff on Twitch I mean you know
that a cuter but um yeah a lot of people
have been have been like touched or like
affected by by watching your stream so
it's it's cool that you're doing what
you're doing appreciate it I try to
touch and fondle as many people as I can
all right well listen Maya I've had a
blast too and I think it's awesome that
you're doing this conservation work
because of people like you like my kids
have you know alligators in the backyard
so thank you for that actually the
reason we have alligators in our
backyard is because there's a there's a
swamp or Marsh that has this gigantic
development that they're destroying
their habitat so they're moving into the
lake but um I really I think it's
awesome what you're doing and I share
that sentiment I think you're you know I
I don't doubt for a minute that you
bring real value to twitch and that
you're an awesome person I don't think
you know I agree with you that you're
not good at math I mean you're probably
still good at math you're just not know
okay fine so and that's like that's
perfectly fine in my book and I think
the only reason that you're behind the
curve is because like you're on a curve
that you don't belong yeah and so of
course you're gonna be behind and and
then somewhere along the way you started
to think that you're behind on all
curves because my is the girl who's
behind on the curve no that's not true
it's just because you were in on so many
curves that weren't your curves so
anyway good luck to you and you know let
us know if we can support you in some
other way or sometimes people have an
aftermath from these conversations and
I'm glad you have a therapist that you
can lean on
because then ya know but if you want to
you know if you need some kind of
support or something just let us know
you're very welcome and good luck all
right and thank you for making the world
a better place take care okay so oh
I forgot meditation yeah I don't I don't
know she's done EMDR so I don't think
we're gonna meditate I think it's okay
we're gonna let her slide
I just have to think I don't think
meditation is actually good for her
right now
I think she just needs to not just
process whatever she's thinking or
feeling can we see the notes that you
took okay let me just think for a second
let's see if we want to do we want to do
questions let's do questions then we'll
do reaction
let's do questions while things are hot
so let's start with a couple of things
one is what does EMDR so EMDR is
essentially it's something called a
movement a movement desensitization
something I forget what the R is and
it's a technique that's heavily related
to actually meditation actually so I
think the the developers of EMDR it's
essentially ad hot or not if you guys
have heard me talk about that but it's
this thing where you move your eyes and
it's in a particular way and while
you're moving your eyes you explore
traumatic events and so since your
attention is focus on the eye movement
it desensitizes you to some of the
reactions of the traumatic events so
it's essentially a way of maintaining
awareness and not getting sucked into
the trauma and then as you talk about
the trauma and you kind of open that up
but like retain your anchor and the eye
movement it sort of helps you process
the trauma more easily so yes a ruby
light accessing I heard EMDR is used to
help patients with trauma PTSD but the
effect effectiveness is still
questionable yeah so they're they're
mixed studies right so there's some
studies that show that EMDR is effective
and there are other studies that show
that it doesn't seem to be that
effective which is common for a lot of
things in medicine and I think that like
you know we think about effectiveness is
like monolith like its effectiveness is
questionable
well that just presumes that everyone is
going to benefit from the same thing and
in my experience some things are
effective for some people and some
things are not effective for people and
generally speaking you know it takes
time for medicine to tease apart those
differences so for example we know that
you know different kinds of people will
respond to different treatments for
depression for some people psychotherapy
works really well and psychotherapy is
like for other people stuff like
behavioral activation works well for
other people medication works well for
some people exercise works well so
there's a heterogenous population so
treatment you shouldn't think about a
treatment as quote unquote effective or
not effective although there are some
treatments that really don't work for
anyone but you know so I think it's fine
if a treatment has mixed results like it
just to me when you have a study that
shows that something is effective in
another study that shows that it is an
effect or the first question you should
ask yourself is you know what are the
perspectives of the researchers because
sometimes bias can lead to that result
but if there isn't too much bias or you
think that the study was done in a high
quality way it probably means that the
responses are heterogenous
or especially something like EMDR I
think there's a lot of variability and
the quality of people who D EMDR so it's
not like standardized it's like a pill
right so like a pill has a particular
concentration of a substance that's made
in a factoring is guaranteed for
everyone who gets it the variability
between practitioners of EMDR is high in
my experience anyway so let's do let's
do questions and then we'll do reaction
POG ready to go bro okay so hello Hey
okay so my question
is I guess watching my I saw kind of how
she was like influenced by other things
and people and how she grew up on how
much like what she's supposed to be I
guess and what she's supposed to do yeah
um but it seems like she was kind of
able to figure herself and like figure
out like what she is meant to be and
stuff okay I wonder if it's not that
clear to somebody what they are and how
they're supposed to be how they can
figure that out I guess I don't know if
that's like a good question or if it's
too much that's a fantastic question
so first let's understand a couple of
things one is that even though Maya is
moving in the right direction for her
life she still carries her demons with
her right is that so I think that like a
lot of people assume that once you
figure out what you want to do in your
life that the demons go away but the
first thing that I just want to point
out is that you carry your demons with
you the processing the process of
exercising your demons and then like you
know finding out what you want to do in
life is separate right and I and I
recognize that's not your question I
just think it's an important distinction
so question your question is like how do
you find out if you've been told that
you should do something your entire life
like how do you figure out what you're
supposed to do yes because like it might
not be as simple in a way not simple but
like specific maybe as to like how
you're supposed to study a certain thing
it might be just a general thing like
for me it's like how I'm generally
supposed to be right so then I find
myself conflicted as like how are we or
am i really annoying or am I really
funny or am i what am i you know in many
different things that kind of thing like
I don't know it's just what have you
been taught that you should be I guess
that's like a huge response but long
story short I guess like I was
that I'm supposed to be respectful in
anyway in some ways and like I'm I don't
know it's like a very traditional way I
grew up I guess sure so there's like a
lot of things with that thay has to do
with behavior has to do with like maybe
academics like similar to Maya there
where you're supposed to go to a good
Union all that but then I just end up
finding myself conflicted in general so
what I so what's the conflict so on the
one side is be respectful go to detox
and what's on the other side that's the
thing I don't really know because in
reality I'm just I'm just so used to
following the path that I was supposed
to take but like now I have different
behaviors that don't go together and I
don't know which one is like real and
which one is not me
I don't know makes any sense yeah so so
I I think I think that it makes a lot of
sense and I think your answer is
actually closer than you think it is so
let's put it this way right so like
there are some people and and do you
mind if I ask what your ethnicity is
yeah I'm great I don't mind okay
so like there are some people who you
know you've been taught that you should
go to good uni you should do this you
should do that and then there are some
people like in your social circle that
did those things are not completely fine
with it
yes right yes so then you're asking how
do I figure out like who's the real me
and my point is that first of all
there's a gigantic data point because
you're not one of those people yes I'm
definitely not I never felt like a fit
in perfect so then it goes back to this
conflict so then the question is like so
you have the real you that's actually
trying to come out and that's why you
have conflict that's why you didn't you
can't be one of those people so all you
ready to do is pay attention to where
the source of that conflict is coming
from because there's the path that you
should take and then there's the part of
you that rebels against that path so all
you have to do is figure out like what
is that part of you that's rebelling
like why do I feel like not doing this
what about this doesn't feel right to me
that make sense
and as
to explore like why you're conflicted
you're gonna find your answer so like if
we think about Maya she was told in the
third grade she wanted to be an advanced
math class and then as she went to high
school she I'm sure there were kids who
went to like technology camp or math
camp or like that and she said
instead of doing that that doesn't feel
right to me what I really want to do she
had I'm sure she was offered to go to
you know summer soccer camp or math camp
or something like that and then she
noticed a little bit of conflict within
herself that she really didn't want to
do that what she wanted to do is do
conservation where she wanted to be with
animals and then she listened to that
voice because she there was some kind of
conflict and I think if you just listen
if you tunnel down into why you're
conflicted you'll find out who you are
okay that makes a lot of sense awesome
good luck thanks for your question yep
ready for the next one hello Hey so my
question is how do you enhance went of
machine over another thought machine for
example my Myatt or a third machine and
the other one how do you what can you
ask your question again please yeah so
oh do you enhance one thought machine
over another thought machine perfect so
that's a wonderful question so the first
is you it starts with noticing which
thought machine is active so the biggest
problem is that when a thought machine
is active we don't accept we don't
recognize that those are just thoughts
we believe them yeah right so like like
when Maya
you know believes factually that she's
not as good as others twitch streamers
we're like so the first thing you've got
to do is recognize that one of your
thought machines is going to how can I
say this so the first
to recognize that it's a thought machine
that's active instead of truth okay and
and so do you recognize like do you have
a particular thought machine that you're
aware of yeah I can notice a thought
machine that it's filled with fear like
for an anxiety about something okay so
it starts with recognizing the fear and
then there are two or three other
principles so when you're trying to
figure out when you're saying enhance
one thought machine over another let's
just think about the different things
you can do with a thought machine so one
is that you can prioritize one thought
machine over the other the second thing
that you can do is directly shrink a
thought machine so if we look at Maya's
case what we see is that she had a
breakthrough with EMDR that essentially
unpowered or reduced the power to her
thought machine that was like about
abandonment did you catch that part yep
and so in the same way if you figure out
where does this thought machine get its
power from where does it originate from
I mean if you can find the origin of the
thought machine and you can figure out
oh like this is like these thoughts are
coming from third-grade me who felt this
way this isn't actually like true now
it's just like thoughts that are left
over from like this traumatic experience
so again thank you huh
yes or in my case for example it came
from a another movie which stressed me a
lot so when I watched something that
could be stressful I'm like I'm I'm
scared it could stress me don't know
there under the way I have watched like
thousand movies so I'm like oh no don't
worry it will be nice yeah that's that's
really good so so that's good that you
notice that so then what you have to do
is the next time you approach a movie
you need to be aware of like okay is
this the fear from the last horror movie
that's left over or is this like a fear
from now the other thing that I worry a
little bit about is that the horror
movie may not actually
be the origin of it it may have been the
way like the surface of it yeah so did
the horror movie relate to something
else that happened to you before
[Music]
that's better
but it's so it's so what I did they
didn't to be sure absolutely so here's
the way that I would like you to explore
that so the way that you felt when you
think about the horror movie that
created this for you think about the way
that you felt in that horror movie and
then ask yourself have you felt that way
before I mean if the answer is yes go
back to and reflect about how did I feel
then why did I feel then because I would
be really surprised if it was created by
the horror movie yes I don't find the
root of the primitive absolutely and
then as you process that root you can
see a therapist or just reflect about it
or think about it then the thought
machine will start to get powered down
and then the second thing that you can
do is as those thoughts or that anxiety
starts to rise you can shift towards
another one through a technique like
alternate nostril breathing or something
like that you can actually like just
shift and then start to you know you're
gonna have different thoughts or
conflicting thoughts and then you can
literally steer your mind so you can ask
yourself if you say like oh I should
watch this movie and I shouldn't watch
this movie and then notice that you have
the two conflict right you say oh it's
okay to watch the movie it'll be a great
movie and then kind of notice okay I'm
gonna choose to watch the movie and
there's gonna be a part of my mind that
is gonna be afraid and I'm just gonna
watch that thing and I'm gonna let it be
I'm not gonna try to not be afraid I'm
gonna let it be afraid but I'm also
going to try to enjoy the movie yeah
absolutely
it's like and they are technique
absolutely very good excellent
yeah perfect all right good luck man
thanks a lot for everything you that you
do yeah of course man
my pleasure